- [Instructor] Very seldom in the real world
do we actually use embedded databases.
In this video,
I'm going to show you how to use a local database
to connect to your data.
Now, if you want to join along for this video,
you will need a Postgres instance.
I've included in the bin directory of the exercise files
a script that I will be using
to start a Docker image instance locally.
You're free to use this on your own.
However, we will continue with the rest of the course
using the current embedded database.
So this is totally up to you.
I just want to show you how it's done.
Now, you need to have Docker installed
or you need to have a Postgres image.
And if you're using Windows,
you're going to have to modify the startup script
to be Windows compatible.
Again, it's not a requirement to continue with this database
because we can use the embedded database going forward.
But with all of that said,
let's jump into our IDEs.
All right, so the first thing we're going to do
is we're going to go into our POM file.
We're going to modify our H2 database
to be a Postgres database.
Now we will run Maven
to allow it to bring in our dependencies.
And while that's going on,
we're going to go to src, main, resources,
and open up our application.properties file.
Now we're going to leave the ScriptUtils
and the ddl-auto alone,
but we are going to add a few.
So spring.jpa.database
In my case, it is postgresql.
spring.datasource.url
And in my case, it is jdbc
:postgresql
://localhost:5432
/dev
And dev is the name of my database
that I have defined in this Docker file.
So, we'll get to that in a moment,
but for right now, just know that that is the URL I'm using.
You are going to have to match that to yours
if you are following along.
So now we're going to give it a datasource username.
And in this case, mine is postgres. Uber secret.
Word of warning here.
You do not want to commit ever to source control
real usernames and passwords.
These are things that should be injected by your runtime
as secrets in a production system.
But for this, it'll be just fine.
So let me pop up a terminal window
and I'm going to navigate to my bin directory.
And I am going to do a start postgres command.
Now, this is going to start up the Docker image,
and then you'll see that it ran the schema.
So there's a whole bunch of inserts that happened.
So now that Postgres is running,
if I run my application,
so let's scroll up here a little bit.
After Tomcat came online and the HikariPool started,
you'll notice that we no longer are using
the schema.sql and data.sql
that are included in src, main, resources.
And that's because it's not using an embedded database.
So it no longer is going to look for those
using the ScriptUtils.
But if we scroll down,
we have returned data from the database,
because when I started up that Docker image,
I used the schema.sql
and the data.sql from the bin directory,
where we originally copied them from,
to populate this database.
And that's really all you have to do
to take a local embedded version
and turn it into a real live remote version.
And obviously, mine's running on my desktop,
but in the real world, the URL wouldn't be localhost.
But that's just a value in a properties file.
For the most part, this is what we do in production
when we move something that I am POCing on my desktop
into a real full-fledged application
as it goes to our environments.
And that's the power of embedded databases with Spring.
Now, for the rest of this course,
you are free to use this Postgres database if you want
and you followed along.
Otherwise, just revert the code back
to the way it looked when we started this video,
or pull it back from the exercise files,
and we'll go forward with the embedded database.